how do you physically prepare for a
speech throughout my YouTube Channel
videos I've created a lot of content on
how to build an effective speech
structure how to deliver an impactful
presentation with things like eye
contact body language but until now I
haven't put a video out talking about
such an important piece which is what to
physically do in the time immediately
leading up to the speech you're about to
deliver this video covers exactly that
I'm going to talk about some of the
things you can do to get yourself as
physically prepared as possible so if
you've done your homework and you've
built up a great speech and then you
combine the lessons from this video
physically looking after yourself and
setting yourself up for Success you are
going to knock your speech out of the
park hey everyone my name is Wade
Patterson and my whole YouTube channel
is dedicated to helping you become a
better better more impactful
Communicator communication is something
that is essential in life whether we
want personal success business success
much of that hinges on our abilities to
communicate well with others if this is
an area you're looking to improve please
subscribe to my channel it's my mission
to put out a lot of great video content
to help walk you through the steps to
become a better Communicator so let's
Dive Right into these tips of how you
can physically prepare to give a speech
and the first thing that is so important
is to consider doing exercise or working
out the morning of the day you're about
to give the speech how many times have
you gone to the gym and then said to
yourself
I regret that that didn't that didn't
really feel great I'm I'm not happy I
went and exercised
I'm guessing it's pretty rare maybe if
you injured yourself or an extreme
example like that but usually what
happens is when we take the time to
exercise or work out we feel incredible
there's a chemical release in our body
that makes us feel so happy we took the
time to exercise and it sets the tone
for our day in my experience the days
where I've had to give important
speeches almost always I will try to fit
a workout in earlier that day it sets
the tone it gets me physically ready
physically prepared and then later that
day I'm not feeling sluggish I'm not
feeling out of my element I'm not
lacking confidence all of those things
feel better when we incorporate working
out into our day so exercise is one of
the most important things to do the day
of giving a speech a second tip is to do
some form of meditation or visualization
many people who are successful at what
they do talk about the importance of
visualizing themselves doing something
well and this is something I do often
before giving a speech heck even when I
practice giving a speech whether I'm in
my my bathroom or whether I'm in my
kitchen or wherever it is that I'm
standing up rehearsing going through my
speech I try to visualize to the best of
my ability what the crowd will look like
what the configuration of the room will
be roughly how many people I'll be
talking to I'll do my best to create
almost make-believe this in my mind that
they're watching me as I'm practicing
delivering this speech and by
visualizing myself doing it well often
when I actually get to the place where
I'm going to be speaking it reduces the
anxiety and the fear because I've been
through this I've mentally prepared but
then physically once I'm up on stage I'm
prepared as well because it's not such a
surprising thing if there's a big crowd
I've already thought about the fact how
many people will be out in the audience
so this focusing internally and
picturing yourself not only delivering
the speech but doing a very good job of
it is an important piece in preparing
yourself to deliver the next piece of
advice I have for physically getting
yourself ready to deliver a speech is to
reduce your alcohol consumption now I
understand that many speeches are given
either as part of a wedding and usually
there's a lot of alcohol Drank in and
around a wedding and also for business
presentations whether it's a conference
or that type of event and again often
the drinks are flowing at these business
events as well I'm not saying you can't
drink anything but I am suggesting that
you should definitely limit that alcohol
consumption the night before
definitely I would say don't drink
anything the day of an example of this
is if you're giving a wedding speech
that evening often there's drinks going
around during the day okay you can have
a sip as part of a champagne toast if
that's completely necessary but don't
have a few drinks before you go up and
deliver many people will act like it's
no big deal they will have those drinks
they they tell you they're just gonna
wing the speech they get up there
but time and time again in my experience
I've seen those individuals deliver
deliver the speech and it's not done to
the best of their abilities alcohol it
fogs up our minds a little bit and makes
it more difficult to communicate
coherently and flawlessly and if you're
wanting to do a really great job on this
speech it's work worth the sacrifice to
limit that consumption and then after
you're done hey if you like to drink by
all means celebrate with a pint or two
or four but deliver your speech first
give yourself the best shot to deliver
it well
and then enjoy the alcohol after when
giving a speech it's really important to
give yourself a good night's rest the
night before as I mentioned earlier in
this video there are a lot of tempting
things that happen in and around events
where we may be giving a speech if it's
a wedding there's parties that happen
the night before and celebrations and
you probably want to be out late
spending time with those people do so to
some degree but if you have the
opportunity to step aside before things
get too crazy your body will thank you
the next day that you've given it a full
night's sleep same situation with work
conferences often people are heading out
to the clubs after maybe different
dinners or events if you're giving an
important speech it's probably the
responsible decision to cut out early
get a good night's sleep and deliver
that presentation the reason I'm telling
you these tips isn't to take away from
your fun of course you want to enjoy the
event but you also want to give yourself
the best opportunity possible to crush
this speech it would be a shame to go to
all the work of practicing a speech
weeks beforehand just to have a
limitation because you didn't get enough
sleep or you drank alcohol and you
weren't physically ready give yourself a
bedtime that's a respectable time to get
that seven eight hours of sleep whatever
you need to function at the top of your
ability the next thing to keep in mind
for physical preparedness before giving
your speech is to have food in your
belly but not too much food depending on
the context of the speech we're giving
if it's at an event there may be a big
buffet and while it's tempting to go and
fill our plates and eat as much as you
can if you eat too much and are feeling
uncomfortable that is going to be a
tough situation it's going to add stress
before you get up and front of an
audience and deliver a speech but at the
same time if you're too nervous and you
don't want to eat anything then we get
the risk of things like light-headedness
not having enough energy you want to
strike that balance eat food preferably
healthy food before going up enough
that's going to make sure that you're
not hungry your stomach's not growling
while you're up there but don't overeat
either because that could put you in an
even worse position and make it really
difficult to perform to the best of your
abilities the next thing to keep in mind
to ensure you're physically prepared for
delivering this speech is to drink a
healthy amount of water that day and
bring water up onto the stage with you
as you go to give your presentation or
speech our bodies do funny things when
we are standing in front of a crowd and
often something I've seen many times
before is people's mouths go dry and
then they have this
this gross sounding almost like lip
smacking noise that happens because
their mouths are dry and it's one of
those nervous responses that our body
gives you can be prepared for that and
the way to do it is to have water on
stage have drank enough water beforehand
but then if you notice that you start to
get that sound if you don't have water
often it gets worse because then you
become mindful of it and you get even
more nervous and then your mouth gets
drier but if you're prepared you have
water there you start to notice that
sound is happening pause between
sentences grab a cup of water have a
drink and then continue into your
presentation nobody will notice nobody
will think that's weird all of the best
public speakers always have water on
stage with them a final tip I have for
physically getting ready for delivering
a speech and this is one that you my
friends of the channel who have watched
a few videos before know that I've
talked about and that is standing up
before or you deliver the speech it is
difficult especially if we're at an
event where most of the evening or most
of the day were sat down to go from
sitting for a long period of time to
then being invited up to the stage and
giving a presentation after being sat
for so long if you know your opportunity
to speak is coming up in the agenda if
it doesn't look awkward stand up and
stand at the back or the side of the
room that's going to help your body get
ready it knows okay I'm standing up I'm
getting ready for action something's
about to happen or if that's not
possible depending on the dynamic still
stand up maybe go for a quick walk
outside the room get yourself physically
ready so you're not going from just
sitting in your chair to all of a sudden
standing in front of a crowd which is an
intimidating place to be when your body
is stood up
give that strong posture shoulders back
big breaths breathing look at the crowd
and get yourself physically prepared and
that's going to help so much I know this
was a bit of a different video but
hopefully this video on how to
physically get ready for giving a speech
or a presentation was beneficial to you
if it was let me know in the comments
I'm always curious on what areas I
should focus on for delivering these
types of videos and advice to you so
hopefully you got some value out of it
also if you haven't done it yet please
subscribe to my channel that is one of
the best ways you can support me and
it's free you just get those little
reminders from time to time with the
thumbnail with my face on them when
there's a new video especially when you
turn on notifications thank you so much
for taking the time to watch this video
I will catch you on the next one people
are more scared of public speaking than
they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it